---
title: Medication Reminder Systems for Seniors
author: Tommy Shen
description: Chinese National Innovation & Entrepreneur Competition Outstanding Project.
image:
  path: ../assets/20220930MRSS/title.png

date: 2022-09-30
categories: [Project, Video]
tags: [Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Platform]
layout: post
---

This project was lead by Yue Tang(Tom), who is my roommate last 3 years. Currently he is a PhD candidate in [SOLElab ECNU](https://solelab.tech/team/), other teammates are: Mianzhi Wu (MS candidate in solelab), Mingyuan Yin

Due to the patent examination, source code is currently close-sourse. Patent Number: 202211076817.8, PHD-220032 in China National Intellectual Property Administration(CNIPA), All copyrights reserved.

## Demonstration

On screen people are Mianzhi Wu and Yue Tang, they are also excellent CS students and good friends with me.

- Architecture

{%
  include embed/video.html
  src='../assets/20220930MRSS/architecture.mp4'
  types='mp4'
  title='Demo video'
  autoplay=false
  loop=true
%}

- Demo

{%
  include embed/video.html
  src='../assets/20220930MRSS/illustration.mp4'
  types='mp4'
  title='Demo video2'
  autoplay=false
  loop=true
%}

## Technical Details

This is a **full-stack** project including Website, Android App, DataBase, Transformer-Based Voice Simulator and embedded scanner system. Whole project was developed on Raspberry Pi with at least 50GB ROM and 8GB RAM

## Contributors

My personal part was to complete the web crawler for all medicine information, maintain SQLite and MongoDB, and develop the website. A open-source code version and report is avaliable in my GitHub(I translated it into another task, but the implementation is the same). Mianzhi and Tom completed the Android app, model deployment on Raspberry PI, video illustration and all paper works.

- [Code](https://github.com/Ghostlikei/Crawler_ECNU)

- [Technical Poster](https://tommyshen.me/posts/Web110/)

This project was guided by Ye Wang, ECNU. Additionally, lots of students from DaSE Class of 2024 and Class 2025 provided precious suggestions and supports to our projects.